Most discrete evolutionary algorithms (EAs) implement elitism,
meaning that they make the biologically implausible assumption
that the fittest individuals never die. While elitism favours
exploitation and ensures that the best seen solutions are not
lost, it has been widely conjectured that non-elitism is
necessary to explore promising fitness valleys without getting
stuck in local optima. Determining when non-elitist EAs
outperform elitist EAs has been one of the most fundamental open
problems in evolutionary computation. A recent analysis of a
non-elitist EA shows that this algorithm does not outperform its
elitist counterparts on the benchmark problem JUMP.

We solve this open problem through rigorous runtime analysis of
elitist and non-elitist population-based EAs on a class of
multi-modal problems. We show that with 3-tournament selection
and appropriate mutation rates, the non-elitist EA optimises the
multi-modal problem in expected polynomial time, while an elitist
EA requires exponential time with overwhelmingly high
probability.

A key insight in our analysis is the non-linear selection profile
of the tournament selection mechanism which, with appropriate
mutation rates, allows a small sub-population to reside on the
local optimum while the rest of the population explores the
fitness valley. In contrast, we show that the comma-selection
mechanism which does not have this non-linear profile, fails to
optimise this problem in polynomial time.

The theoretical analysis is complemented with an empirical
investigation on instances of the set cover problem, showing that
non-elitist EAs can perform better than the elitist ones. We also
provide examples where usage of mutation rates close to the error
thresholds is beneficial when employing non-elitist
population-based EAs.