Selecting and remembering secure passwords puts a high cognitive burden 
on the user, which has adverse effects on usability and security. 
Authentication schemes based on implicit memory can relieve the user of 
the burden of actively remembering a secure password. In this paper, we 
propose a new authentication scheme (MooneyAuth) that relies on 
implicitly remembering the content of previously seen Mooney images. 
These images are thresholded two-tone images derived from images 
containing single objects. Our scheme has two phases: In the enrollment 
phase, a user is presented with Mooney images, their corresponding 
original images, and labels. This creates an implicit link between the 
Mooney image and the object in the user's memory that serves as the 
authentication secret. In the authentication phase, the user has to 
label a set of Mooney images, a task that gets performed with 
substantially fewer mistakes if the images have been seen in the 
enrollment phase. We applied an information-theoretical approach to 
compute the eligibility of the user, based on which images were labeled 
correctly. This new dynamic scoring is substantially better than 
previously proposed static scoring by considering the surprisal of the 
observed events. We built a prototype and performed three experiments 
with 230 and 70 participants over the course of 264 and 21 days, 
respectively. We show that MooneyAuth outperforms current implicit 
memory-based schemes, and demonstrates a promising new approach for 
fallback authentication procedures on the Web.