Since the advent of the technology age, new 
and innovative ways to communicate with and 
control machines have been gaining momentum 
over traditional forms of input. The rise of 
touch, gesture and speech based control high- 
light the desire for more natural human com- 
puter interactions. A Brain-Computer Inter- 
face (BCI) is an extension of these interaction 
methods; allowing a user's brain activity to be 
interpreted as an input into a computer system. 
In this paper, a successful and novel implemen- 
tation for controlling a robotic arm using a P- 
300 Speller interface is presented, with partic- 
ular focus on solving high order problems with 
task speci c commands. The system was val- 
idated through a packing experiment, where a 
participant needed to pick and place scattered 
objects into a container. Initial results show 
successful completion of the task within four 
minutes, with a command selection accuracy of 
approximately 97%.